---
layout: post
title: Lessons from CS107 and Resolutions for my 19th Birthday
---

CS107 is the quintessential systems class that almost every student interested in Computer Science takes at Stanford: http://web.stanford.edu/class/cs107/

The course follows B&O's textbook quite closely, and forces a huge amount into your brain in the span of ten weeks. It's safe to say, although I didn't do too great in the course
I've become a much much better hacker (my typing speed has also improved tremendously). I really struggled in the Spring Quarter due to a multitude of factors, but looking back it was such
a tremendous learning experience that I wouldn't take it back for anything. By the words of Eliud Kipchoge: "I don't lose, I learn".

Broadly speaking, the course walks us through the following topics on a week by week basis:

Week 1: Data types and how we can represent integers 

Unsigned and signed integers and how data can interact at the bit level. Key ideas include avoiding overflow as well as how signed and unsigned extensions. Two's complement and how we 
can compare the sizes of data at the bit-level. 

Week 2: Bitwise and String manipulation

The key takeaway from this week is that no matter what data type we are casting towards or working with, the underlying bit representation remains the same. Therefore it is entirely
plausible to operate on a particular data structure with traditional left and right shift and cast it to another data structure. Be careful of overflow! 

Week 3: More C-string manipulation + Arrays / Pointers

There are many library functions which we can use in order to manipulate and work with strings. This week was a comprehensive overview of these functions as well as an indepth dive into 
the notorious strtok library function. 

Week 4: Stack/Heap interaction and Generics (Void *) 

We learn about the benefits and drawbacks of initializing memory on the stack opposed to the heap, as well as how we can write programs that function well regardless
of the datatype that we are using to minimize needless repetitive effort. 

Week 5: Function pointers (Continuation of generics) and x86-64 (Data Storage)

This week was a continuation of generics where we extend the idea to function pointers. Furthermore we introduced the idea of storing data in registers rather than
on the stack or heap, which allows the computer to perform their operations much faster, this is looking under the hood of the C-compiler, which we have been relying on
throughout the entire course.

Week 6: Assembly, Condition Codes, Control Flow

The "mov" instruction underpins a lot of the mechanics of data movement in x86, and this week dives deeper into how we are able to represent traditional arithmetic and logical
operations with the following instructions. We were also introduced to the idea of the computer functionining on the assembly level (even deeper than C!) which was truly mind-boggling.
Overall this week gave me such a deep understanding of how programs execute and move data around under the hood. Nick said we could go even deeper, which was hard to believe :o

Week 7: Runtime Stack, Managing the Heap

%rip and %rsp are two special registers that interact in a way that allows us to keep track of function calls and returns. This explains why our registers need to be classified into
being "callee" owned and "caller" owned which prevents conflict when a function is both a caller and callee. We are also introduced to the idea of the heap-allocator in all of its three
forms (implicit, explicit and bump) allocators. This is essentially what the program is executing without us knowing under the hood to allocate memory for our program to run. 

Week 8: Compiler Optimizations

Nick introduced ideas of CPU cycles and Static/Dynamics counts in order to measure how well and efficient a program is performing. GCC has several in built optimizations that are quite magical, 
and the programmer will do well to take advantage of these while they still can. I am still working on my heap allocator so I will get back to you when I'm done! 

Resolutions for my 19th Birthday:

I recently turned 19 and I feel so old. Some resolutions that I would like to keep are the following:

(1) Don't put so much pressure on yourself, at some point during last spring quarter you suffered symptoms of 无心向学 because you thought being in college and learning these things, doing canned 
assignments were pointless because instead you could be grinding out there in the real world and making money to support your family. I urge you to not think like this in your remaining years
in this beautiful university campus and cherish your college years whilst you can, you have the rest of your life to worry about office politics, how to earn bread and support your family - you are
an undergraduate so act like one! Don't rush into adulthood no matter how much pressure there is back home, take life one step at a time. 

(2) Commit to your choices harder and be more certain about your current trajectory. You may think that there are so many choices to make at this stage that it is paralyzing, but remember what you are
really here for, to leave a positive impact on this planet in any way that you can. Coming back to Hong Kong reminded me of my roots, how I idolized Eliud Kipchoge and all I wanted to be was a fireman
who could spend his days preaching the wonders of running. Relax, work hard, and enjoy the ride. You have a plan right now Math/EECS with a strong interest in the world of medicine - just do your best to 
build capital in these areas and don't worry about whether you are "behind" or not. Life is very much an individual journey. 

(3) Graduate college with a double major in three years: With (1) and (2) being said, I still have a strong desire to finish college in 3 years with a double major in Mathematics and Electrical Engineering
whilst simultaneously fulfilling all my premedical requirements should I decide to apply to medical school in the future. The reason behind this is not only financial, but also because I am someone who likes to
compete and who likes to win - that is just my nature. Over the past year I tried to fit myself into a different mould and tried to throw away this competitive spirit, but I realized that I had lost the fidelity to
self that had propelled me forward up to this point. No more Mr Nice Guy, I am going full in to show Stanford just how intense and powerful a student I can be. 

(4) Be patient and think positive: Even if you miss the train now, there will be more opportunities to come. Life is long, and good things come to those who make wise decisions and sacrifices during times of uncertainty.
"To win it is not the tires but the person." 

Go out and destroy the next year Bruce :) 
