---
title: 'Agentic Workflows in Chip Design'
date: 2025-06-17
permalink: /posts/2025/06/aiagentschipdesign
tags:
  - AI
  - Semiconductor
---

The rise of foundation models has revolutionized natural language processing, image synthesis, and software development. But a quieter revolution is underway—one that brings the power of intelligent agents into the traditionally rigid and manual world of chip design.

Modern silicon design is a labyrinthine process. From RTL authoring and verification to floorplanning, placement, timing closure, and DRC signoff, the flow demands coordination across tools, teams, and thousands of constraints. AI agents, especially when organized into modular, collaborative workflows, offer an opportunity to reimagine this stack—not as a sequence of brittle scripts, but as a resilient and adaptive system.

Traditional EDA automation relies heavily on rule-based scripting (e.g., Tcl, Makefiles, Python orchestration). While powerful, these systems are hard to generalize across designs, brittle in the face of new constraints, and opaque in failure modes.

AI agents offer a new paradigm. Autonomous but collaborative planners, optimizers, synthesizers, and validators can interact as modular actors. Context-aware agents can incorporate spec-level intent—such as PPA goals, power domains, or hierarchical reuse—directly into their reasoning. Most importantly, these agents are adaptive and self-healing: when a DRC check fails or timing closure regresses, agents can reroute tasks or suggest localized fixes.

Here’s a vision for an agentic chip design flow. A Spec Agent ingests user constraints (power, area, latency) and architectural intent, converting high-level goals into decomposable sub-goals for RTL generation. The RTL Agent then uses LLMs and codegen agents to propose parameterized RTL modules, collaborating with formal agents for equivalence and assertions. A Verification Agent constructs unit-level UVM testbenches or formal harnesses, detects coverage gaps, and proposes new scenarios.

Next, Synthesis & Floorplan Agents run constrained synthesis and place-and-route iteratively, learning from past failure cases like congestion or clock skew. A Signoff Agent performs checks for timing, power, DRC, and LVS, and provides causally grounded feedback to upstream agents. At the core lies a Healing & Orchestration Layer—like Regenerai—that detects broken workflows, retries with alternate toolchains or parameters, and ensures runtime stability and auditability.

Several challenges and opportunities exist. Tool API fragmentation means most EDA tools were not designed with agent interoperability in mind, opening a niche for wrappers, proxies, or unified data layers. IP protection is critical and must be baked into agent memory and model boundaries. Agents should also be trainable using real-world feedback—timing regressions, area blow-up—leveraging reinforcement learning and cost-based evaluation. Human-in-the-loop optimization remains key: engineers supervise, nudge, or override agents where necessary.

Mend and similar platforms can serve as the nervous system of agent-based silicon design. With task tracing, retry logic, healing policies, and eval metrics like QoR, latency, and runtime stability, we can shift from static workflows to resilient design ecosystems. Over time, chip design will no longer resemble a linear waterfall, but a living, learning organism—agents designing better silicon informed by every past failure.

The future of chip design is not just about faster tools. It's about smarter, self-healing systems. Agents that collaborate, adapt, and recover are already within reach. Silicon won’t just be manufactured. It will be co-designed—by humans and machines together.
